chore(tutorial): Using multiple themes together (#21714)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/tutorial/using-multiple-themes-together.md

title: Using Multiple Themes Together
---

> ## What’s contained in this tutorial?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What’s contained in this tutorial?
```
## What this tutorial covers:

By the end of this tutorial, you’ll have done the following:

- learned how to compose multiple Gatsby themes into a final site
- learned about component shadowing
- learned about shadowing a Theme-UI theme file

> The themes we will be composing in this tutorial are [gatsby-theme-blog](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/), [gatsby-theme-notes](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/) and [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/). Follow along as we go from 'hello-world' to a fully functioning final site!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The themes we will be composing in this tutorial are [gatsby-theme-blog](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/), [gatsby-theme-notes](/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/) and [gatsby-mdx-embed](/packages/@pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed/). Follow along as we go from 'hello-world' to a fully functioning final site!
```
Inside docs we can use relative links (/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/ instead of https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/), which utilize the Gatsby Link component

Author: Done, I think I caught them all!

> The themes we will be composing in this tutorial are [gatsby-theme-blog](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/), [gatsby-theme-notes](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/) and [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/). Follow along as we go from 'hello-world' to a fully functioning final site!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The themes we will be composing in this tutorial are [gatsby-theme-blog](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/), [gatsby-theme-notes](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/) and [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/). 
```

I think the last line can be done without. I might be wrong, what are your thoughts?

Author: Cleaned this section up!

          margin: 0,
          padding: 0,
        })}
      >
        {navLinks.map(link => (
          <li
            css={css({
              marginRight: 2,
              ":last-of-type": {
                marginRight: 0,
              },
            })}
          >
            <Styled.a
              css={css({
                fontFamily: `heading`,
                fontWeight: `bold`,
                textDecoration: `none`,
                ":hover": {
                  textDecoration: `underline`,
                },
              })}
              as={Link}
              to={link.url}
            >
              {link.name}
            </Styled.a>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
    </nav>
  )
}
```

3. When that is done the next step is to shadow `header.js` from `gatsby-theme-blog`. You can copy and paste code from the original component as a starting point for your new shadowed component.

Your file structure should look like this:

`src/gatsby-theme-blog/components/header.js`

```text
└── src
    ├── gatsby-theme-blog
    │   ├── components
    │   │   ├── header.js // highlight-line
```

4. Import the navigation menu and add it to the header:

> > 💡 This code snippet is edited for length the [full component can be viewed on GitHub.](/examples/using-multiple-themes/src/gatsby-theme-blog/components/header.js)

Reviewer 2: I think we want the absolute URL here?

title: Using Multiple Themes Together
---

## What this tutorial covers

- Composing multiple themes into a final site using [gatsby-theme-blog](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/), [gatsby-theme-notes](/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/) and [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/) as examples
- Component shadowing
- Component shadowing for Theme-UI theme file

## Prerequisites

> 

Author: Did you mean to add a link to the reference guide in the prerequisites section as well? I added a link at the end under other resources.  My sense is that second link to "What are Gatsby themes" would lead folks to the reference guide easily if they wanted.

> 

Reviewer: Oh if you have a link to that in the other resources section, then there is no need for it here my bad. I would ask that the other changes be implemented, I think it reads better.  what are your thoughts?

- [Gatsby fundamentals](/tutorial/#gatsby-fundamentals)
- [What are Gatsby themes?](/docs/themes/what-are-gatsby-themes/)

> 

Author: I added an "Overview" section at the start, let me know if that is what you meant since it is a longer tutorial.

> 

Reviewer: Looks great! Thanks. It would be great to be able to link the sections to this overview. What do you think?

> 

Reviewer 3: maybe use the TOC element here?

## Step 1: Create a new site using the hello world starter

```shell
gatsby new multiple-themes https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

## Step 2: Install the themes

The first two themes we will compose together are [gatsby-theme-blog](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/) and [gatsby-theme-notes](/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/).

```shell
npm install gatsby-theme-blog gatsby-theme-notes
```

## Step 3: Update gatsby-config.js

> The themes need to be added to the plugins array and we need some basic site metadata too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The themes need to be added to the plugin array and the site metadata that comes with a starter should be renamed for personalization.
```
In the doc try to avoid using the first person “I”, “we”, “let’s”, and “us” per the [style guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Multiple Themes`,
    description: `A tutorial for building a Gatsby site using multiple themes.`,
    author: `Your name`,
    social: [
      {
        name: `twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {
        name: `github`,
        url: `https://github.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        basePath: `/blog`,
      },
    },
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-notes`,
      options: {
        basePath: `/notes`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

## Step 4: Run the site

Next, run the site and see what you have:

```shell
cd multiple-themes
gatsby develop
```

## Step 5: Add some content

> Not much to look at yet, just a plain `hello-world`, but it works! Behind the scenes our two themes [created content folders](/docs/themes/conventions/#initializing-required-directories) for us in the root directory of the site. We need to add some content to these folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behind the scenes, the two themes created content folders in the root directory of the site. In this step, you will add some content to these folders.
```
Try to avoid extra links when writing beginner-friendly tutorials as it might be a lot of distractions.

Put an avatar image into `content/assets/avatar.png`

Add at least one post and one note:

```md:title=content/posts/hello-posts.mdx
---
title: My first blog post
date: 2020-02-15
---

Multiple themes are great!
```

```md:title=content/note/hello-notes.mdx
---
title: My first note
date: 2020-02-20
---

Multiple themes are awesome!
```

## Step 6: Run the site again

```shell
gatsby develop
```

Now if you visit `localhost:8000/blog` and `localhost:8000/notes` you should see some content to look at.

## Step 7: Put the blog posts on the homepage

- Stop your development server, `CTRL + C`.
- Delete `src/pages/index.js`.
- Change the theme options for the blog theme in `gatsby-config.js`.
- Restart your development server with `gatsby develop`.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
{
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/`,
      },
    },
```

## Step 8: Shadow the 'bio-content.js' component

> Your name probably isn't Jane Doe. Let's fix that with a custom `bio-content.js` component using [theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/). Don't forget to stop and restart your development server when adding a shadowed component for the first time. Your file structure should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your name probably isn't Jane Doe. It is possible to update this information with a custom `bio-content.js` component using [theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/). 

> Don't forget to stop and restart your development server when adding a shadowed component for the first time. 

Your file structure should look like this:
```

```
└── src
    ├── gatsby-theme-blog
    │   ├── components
    │   │   ├── bio-content.js // highlight-line
```

And your component might look like this:

```jsx:title=bio-content.js
import React, { Fragment } from "react"
import { Styled } from "theme-ui"

export default () => (
  <Fragment>
    Words by <Styled.a href="http://example.com/">Your Name</Styled.a>.
    <br />
    Change me. Your awesome bio, about how great you are at super stuff!
  </Fragment>
)
```

## Step 9: Shadow the Theme-UI theme file

> `gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes` both use [Theme-UI](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/theme-ui/) design tokens to manage their styling; colors, font sizes, spacing, etc. We can use component shadowing to gain control over these design tokens in our final site. Don't forget to stop and restart your development server the again. Your file structure should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes` both use [Theme-UI](/docs/theme-ui/) design tokens to manage their styling; colors, font sizes, spacing, etc. We can use component shadowing to gain control over these design tokens in the final site. Don't forget to stop and restart your development server the again. Your file structure should look like this:
```

import defaultTheme from "gatsby-theme-blog/src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui/index"

export default merge(defaultTheme, {
  colors: {
    text: "green",
    primary: "salmon",
    heading: "pink",
    modes: {
      dark: {
        background: "blue",
        primary: "teal",
        highlight: "red",
      },
    },
  },
})
```

## Step 10: Add another theme

Themes can be big, like `gatsby-theme-blog`, but they can also be a small discrete set of components or functions. A great example of this is [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/) which adds the ability to embed social media content and videos directly into your MDX files.

Let's install the theme.

```shell
npm install @pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed
```

Add it to your plugins.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins: [`@pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed`]
  ...
}
```

Test it out by adding a Youtube video to one of your blog posts.

```md:title=content/posts/hello-posts.mdx
---
title: Jason and Jackson Talk Themes
date: 2020-02-21
---

Here is a video about composing and styling themes with J&J!

<YouTube youTubeId="6Z4p-qjnKCQ" />
```

## Step 11: Add a navigation menu

> We can use component shadowing one more time to add a basic navigation menu. You can read more about [creating dynamic navigation menus](/docs/creating-dynamic-navigation/) in the docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementing component shadowing one more time to add a basic navigation menu can be an option. You can read more about [creating dynamic navigation menus](/docs/creating-dynamic-navigation/) in the docs.
```

## Overview

- Steps 1 - 3: Composing `gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes`
- Steps 4: Adding content
- Step 5: Put the blog on the homepage
- Step 6: Component shadowing for author bio
- Step 7: Component shadowing for Theme-UI
- Step 8: Add another theme
- Step 9: Component shadowing for navigation menu

## Step 1: Create a new site using the hello world starter

```shell
gatsby new multiple-themes https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

## Step 2: Install and compose the themes

This step composes [gatsby-theme-blog](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/) and [gatsby-theme-notes](/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/).

Install the themes:

```shell
npm install gatsby-theme-blog gatsby-theme-notes
```

Update `gatsby-config.js` to add the themes to the plugin array and to add basic site metadata:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Your Site Title`,
    description: `A description for your blazing fast site, using multiple themes!`,
    author: `Your name`,
    social: [
      {
        name: `Twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {

>         name: `Github`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        name: `GitHub`,
```

>         name: `Github`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        name: `GitHub`,
```

---
title: My first blog post
date: 2020-02-15
---

Multiple themes are great!
```

```md:title=content/note/hello-notes.mdx
---
title: My first note
date: 2020-02-20
---

Multiple themes are awesome!
```

Restart your development server:

```shell
# CTRl + C to stop the development server.
gatsby develop
```

Now if you visit `localhost:8000/blog` and `localhost:8000/notes` you should see your content.

## Step 5: Put the blog posts on the homepage

- Stop your development server, `CTRL + C`.
- Delete `src/pages/index.js`.
- Change the theme options for the blog theme in `gatsby-config.js`.
- Restart your development server with `gatsby develop`.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
{
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/`,
      },
    },
```

## Step 6: Shadow the 'bio-content.js' component

It is possible to update the author bio information with a custom `bio-content.js` component using [theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/).

> Don't forget to stop and restart your development server when adding a shadowed component for the first time.

Your file structure should look like this:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```text
````

└── src
    ├── gatsby-theme-blog
    │   ├── components
    │   │   ├── bio-content.js // highlight-line
```

And your component could look like this:

```jsx:title=bio-content.js
import React, { Fragment } from "react"
import { Styled } from "theme-ui"

export default () => (
  <Fragment>
    Words by <Styled.a href="http://example.com/">Your Name</Styled.a>.
    <br />
    Change me. Your awesome bio, about how great you are!
  </Fragment>
)
```

## Step 7: Shadow the Theme-UI theme file

`gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes` both use [Theme-UI](/docs/theme-ui/) design tokens to manage their styling: colors, font sizes, spacing, etc. We can use component shadowing to gain control over these design tokens in the final site.

Your file structure should look like this:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```text
````

└── src
    ├── gatsby-plugin-theme-ui
    │   ├── index.js //highlight-line
```

And your component could look like this:

```javascript:title=index.js
import merge from "deepmerge"
import defaultTheme from "gatsby-theme-blog/src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui/index"

export default merge(defaultTheme, {
  colors: {
    text: "green",
    primary: "salmon",
    heading: "pink",
    modes: {
      dark: {
        background: "blue",
        primary: "teal",
        highlight: "red",
      },
    },
  },
})
```

## Step 8: Add another theme

Themes can be big, like `gatsby-theme-blog`, but they can also be a small discrete set of components or functions. A great example of this is [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/) which adds the ability to embed social media content and videos directly into your MDX files.

Install the theme:

```shell
npm install @pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed
```

Add it to your plugins:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins: [`@pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed`]
  ...
}
```

Test it out by adding a Youtube video to one of your blog posts:

> ```md:title=content/posts/hello-posts.mdx

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```mdx:title=content/posts/hello-posts.mdx
````
filenames are `mdx` so the language should all also `mdx`?

---
title: Jason and Jackson Talk Themes
date: 2020-02-21
---

Here is a video about composing and styling themes with J&J!

<YouTube youTubeId="6Z4p-qjnKCQ" />
```

## Step 9: Use component shadowing to add a navigation menu

Use component shadowing to add a navigation menu. You can read more about [creating dynamic navigation menus](/docs/creating-dynamic-navigation/) in the docs.

Add a `menuLinks` array to `gatsby-config.js`:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Multiple Themes`,
    description: `A tutorial for building a Gatsby site using multiple themes.`,
    author: `Your name`,
    menuLinks: [
      {
        name: `Blog`,
        url: `/`,
      },
      {
        name: `Notes`,
        url: `/notes`,
      },
    ],
    social: [
      {

>         name: `twitter`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        name: `Twitter`,
```

        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {

>         name: `github`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        name: `GitHub`,
```

        site {
          siteMetadata {
            menuLinks {
              name
              url
            }
          }
        }
      }
    `
  )
  const navLinks = data.site.siteMetadata.menuLinks
  return (
    <nav
      css={css({
        py: 2, // Short form for paddingTop and paddingBottom
      })}
    >
      <ul
        css={css({
          display: `flex`,
          listStyle: `none`,
          margin: 0,
          padding: 0,
        })}
      >
        {navLinks.map(link => (
          <li
            css={css({
              marginRight: 2,
              ":last-of-type": {
                marginRight: 0,
              },
            })}
          >
            <Styled.a
              css={css({
                fontFamily: `heading`,
                fontWeight: `bold`,
                textDecoration: `none`,
                ":hover": {
                  textDecoration: `underline`,
                },
              })}
              as={Link}
              to={link.url}
            >
              {link.name}
            </Styled.a>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
    </nav>
  )
}
```

Shadow `header.js` from `gatsby-theme-blog`:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```test
````

        <div
          css={css({
            display: `flex`,
            justifyContent: `space-between`,
            alignItems: `center`,
            mb: 4,
          })}
        >
          <Title {...props}>{title}</Title>
          {children}
          <Switch
            aria-label="Toggle dark mode"
            checkedIcon={checkedIcon}
            uncheckedIcon={uncheckedIcon}
            checked={isDark}
            onChange={toggleColorMode}
          />
        </div>
        {props.location.pathname === rootPath && <Bio />}
      </div>
    </header>
  )
}
```

## What's next ?

- [Building a theme](/tutorial/building-a-theme/)

## Other resources

- [Gatsby Themes Reference Guide](/docs/themes/)
- [Egghead.io Course: Gatsby Theme Authoring (free)](https://egghead.io/courses/gatsby-theme-authoring)
- [Setting up yarn workspaces for Gatsby theme development](/blog/2019-05-22-setting-up-yarn-workspaces-for-theme-development/#reach-skip-nav)
- [What is component shadowing?](/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/)
- [Customizing styles in Gatsby themes with Theme-UI](/blog/2019-07-03-customizing-styles-in-gatsby-themes-with-theme-ui/)

> - [Composing and styling Gatsby themes (with Brent Jackson) — Learn With Jason](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Z4p-qjnKCQ)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Composing and styling Gatsby Themes (with Brent Jackson) — Learn With Jason](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Z4p-qjnKCQ)
```

title: Using Multiple Themes Together
---

## What this tutorial covers

This tutorial covers how to compose multiple themes into a final site using [gatsby-theme-blog](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/), [gatsby-theme-notes](/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/) and [gatsby-mdx-embed](/packages/@pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed/) as examples. It will also cover the concept of component shadowing with [Theme-UI](docs/theme-ui/) for styling.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes the following:

- That you have an understanding of [Gatsby fundamentals](/tutorial/#gatsby-fundamentals)
- An existing knowledge of [Gatsby themes](/docs/themes/what-are-gatsby-themes/)

> ## Step 1: Create a new site using the hello world starter and change directory to "multiple-themes"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Create a new site 

Use the hello world starter to create a new site and navigate into the "multiple-themes" directory.
```

```shell
gatsby new multiple-themes https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

```shell
cd multiple-themes
```

> ## Step 2: Install and compose the themes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Install and compose the themes
```

This step composes [gatsby-theme-blog](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/) and [gatsby-theme-notes](/packages/gatsby-theme-notes/).

Install the themes:

```shell
npm install gatsby-theme-blog gatsby-theme-notes
```

Edit `gatsby-config.js` to add the themes to the plugin array and to update the site metadata:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Your Site Title`,
    description: `A description for your blazing fast site, using multiple themes!`,
    author: `Your name`,
    social: [
      {
        name: `Twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {
        name: `GitHub`,
        url: `https://github.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        basePath: `/blog`,
      },
    },
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-notes`,
      options: {
        basePath: `/notes`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

> ## Step 3: Run the site

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Run the site
```

Next, run the site and see what you have:

```shell
cd multiple-themes
gatsby develop
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Wondering if this should be its own step since it's sort of an in between step? Perhaps we could put it as part of the previous section and note that you'll want to run your site periodically to check on your changes.

> ## Step 4: Add content

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Add content
```

Behind the scenes, the two themes created content folders in the root directory of the site. In this step, you will add some content to these folders.

Put an avatar image into `content/assets/` directory

> Add at least one post and one note:

Author: Done, see incoming changes

```mdx:title=content/posts/hello-posts.mdx
---
title: My first blog post
date: 2020-02-15
---

Multiple themes are great!
```

```mdx:title=content/note/hello-notes.mdx
---
title: My first note
date: 2020-02-20
---

Multiple themes are awesome!
```

Restart your development server:

```shell
# CTRl + C to stop the development server.
gatsby develop
```

Now if you visit `http://localhost:8001/blog/hello-posts/` and `http://localhost:8001/notes/hello-notes` you should see your content.

## Step 5: Put the blog posts on the homepage

> - Stop your development server, `CTRL + C`.

Author: Agree - I went back and forth on this as well.  I just didn't want someone to be "why isn't this working!!" not realizing they need to stop and start again.

- Delete `src/pages/index.js`.
- Change the theme options for the blog theme in `gatsby-config.js`.
- Restart your development server with `gatsby develop`.

> ```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js

Author: I hummed and hawed about this when writing the first draft. This keeps the "option" visible and I prefer it in my own coding style - going back to a single line install obfuscates the power of theme options.  That is my 2 cents, but happy to revert to the single line install.

> ```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js

Reviewer 4: That seems reasonable for clarity. Perhaps we can add a note that mentions it could revert to a single line?

{
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/`,
      },
    },
```

> 

Author: It is mentioned just above in the bullet points, is that what you meant?

> 

Reviewer 4: Ah oops, missed that while going through. We could move that after the code sample.

> 

Author: Done - see incoming changes.

> ## Step 6: Shadow the 'bio-content.js' component

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Shadow the 'bio-content.js' component
```

It is possible to update the author bio information with a custom `bio-content.js` component using [theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/).

> Don't forget to stop and restart your development server when adding a shadowed component for the first time.

Your file structure should look like this:

```text
└── src
    ├── gatsby-theme-blog
    │   ├── components
    │   │   ├── bio-content.js // highlight-line
```

`src/gatsby-theme-blog/components/bio-content.js`

and your component could look like this:

```jsx:title=bio-content.js
import React, { Fragment } from "react"
import { Styled } from "theme-ui"

export default () => (
  <Fragment>
    Words by <Styled.a href="http://example.com/">Your Name</Styled.a>.
    <br />
    Change me. Your awesome bio, about how great you are!
  </Fragment>
)
```

> ## Step 7: Shadow the Theme-UI theme file

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Shadow Theme-UI
```

`gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes` both use [Theme-UI](/docs/theme-ui/) design tokens to manage their styling: colors, font sizes, spacing, etc. We can use component shadowing to gain control over these design tokens in the final site.

Your file structure should look like this:

```text
└── src
    ├── gatsby-plugin-theme-ui
    │   ├── index.js //highlight-line
```

`src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui/index.js`
and your component could look like this:

> ```javascript:title=index.js

Author: Hahaha - yes those colors were totally random picks of basically the first css colors that came to my mind I will put in some more reasonable ones in the next commit.  I think a few screenshots is a great idea - could someone from the learning team take that on? I noticed in the "Using A Theme" tutorial there are some nice screenshots with a cool Gatsby border on them.

import merge from "deepmerge"
import defaultTheme from "gatsby-theme-blog/src/gatsby-plugin-theme-ui/index"

export default merge(defaultTheme, {
  colors: {
    text: "green",
    primary: "salmon",
    heading: "pink",
    modes: {
      dark: {
        background: "blue",
        primary: "teal",
        highlight: "red",
      },
    },
  },
})
```

## Step 8: Add another theme

Themes can be big, like `gatsby-theme-blog`, but they can also be a small discrete set of components or functions. A great example of this is [gatsby-mdx-embed](https://gatsby-mdx-embed.netlify.com/) which adds the ability to embed social media content and videos directly into your MDX files.

Install the theme:

```shell
npm install @pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed
```

Update the `gatsby-config.js` file and add `gatsby-mdx-embed` as a plugin:

> 

Author: Agree - see incoming changes.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Your Site Title`,
    description: `A description for your blazing fast site, using multiple themes!`,
    author: `Your name`,
    social: [
      {
        name: `Twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {
        name: `GitHub`,
        url: `https://github.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [
    `@pauliescanlon/gatsby-mdx-embed`, // highlight-line
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        basePath: `/`,
      },
    },
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-notes`,
      options: {
        basePath: `/notes`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Test it out by adding a Youtube video to one of your blog posts:

```mdx:title=content/posts/hello-posts.mdx
---
title: Jason and Jackson Talk Themes
date: 2020-02-21
---

Here is a video about composing and styling themes with J&J!

<YouTube youTubeId="6Z4p-qjnKCQ" />
```

> ## Step 9: Use component shadowing to add a navigation menu

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Add a navigation menu
```

Use component shadowing to add a navigation menu. You can read more about [creating dynamic navigation menus](/docs/creating-dynamic-navigation/) in the docs.

Add a `menuLinks` array to `gatsby-config.js`:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Your Site Title`,
    description: `A description for your blazing fast site, using multiple themes!`,
    author: `Your name`,
    // highlight-start
    menuLinks: [
      {
        name: `Blog`,
        url: `/`,
      },
      {
        name: `Notes`,
        url: `/notes`,
      },
    ],
    social: [
      {
        name: `Twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {
        name: `GitHub`,
        url: `https://github.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
    ],

>     // highlight-end

Author: Yep - see incoming changes.
